Add automation example to NUT (#38389)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/nut.markdown

The integration uses {% term polling %} to retrieve data from the NUT
server. The default polling interval is once every 60 seconds.

## Automation example

Home Assistant {% term automations %} can be created to monitor and
take actions on one or more power devices using NUT.

The following example illustrates how to use this integration in a
Home Assistant automation. This example is just a starting point, and
you can use it as inspiration to create your own automations.

### UPS Power Failure Notification

The following example sends a notification to your mobile device when
a monitored UPS loses power and begins using the battery.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Prerequisites

```

> To use this example, the NUT integration must be installed and
> configured, the user's mobile device must be configured for
> notification, the NUT server must be configured with a device named
> `ups` and the status sensor must be named `ups_status`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The NUT integration must be installed and
configured.
- Your mobile device must be configured for
notification.
- The NUT server must be configured with a device named
`ups`.
- The status sensor must be named `ups_status`.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Example

```

The integration uses {% term polling %} to retrieve data from the NUT
server. The default polling interval is once every 60 seconds.

## Automation example

Home Assistant {% term automations %} can be created to monitor and
take actions on one or more power devices using NUT.

The following example illustrates how to use this integration in a
Home Assistant automation. This example is just a starting point, and
you can use it as inspiration to create your own automations.

### UPS Power Failure Notification

The following example sends a notification to your mobile device when
a monitored UPS loses power and begins using the battery.

#### Prerequisites

- The NUT integration must be installed and
configured.
- Your mobile device must be configured for
notification.
- The NUT server must be configured with a device named
`ups`.

> - The status sensor must be named `ups_status`.

Reviewer 2: I think this might cause confusion. I understand why you want to be explicit, but this actually might cause the confusion that people have to rename their stuff, which is not the intention behind it.

Author: Yes, that could be confusing.  Rewritten.

#### Example

```yaml
# Send notification on UPS Power Failure
automation:
  alias: NUT Power Failure Notification

>   description: NUT Power Failure Notification

Reviewer 2: Not sure why description is needed. Strings must be enquoted as per our style guides.

```suggestion
  alias: "NUT Power failure notification"
```

>   mode: single

Reviewer 2: This is the default

```suggestion
```

  triggers:
    - trigger: state
      entity_id:
        - sensor.ups_status

>       to: "On Battery Battery Discharging"

Reviewer 2: This seems odd? Why does this contain a human readable string and not a state string?

Author: This is (unfortunately) how the current integration behaves.  This is a "virtual sensor" according to the source code that maps from ups_status_data containing a list of (sometimes manufacturer-specific) codes to human-readable strings.  Those strings were previously space separated; you recently approved a breaking change that will make the list comma separated in the future.  I'll open a separate PR against 'next' to make that change once this PR has been merged.

We could change this example to use ups_status instead.  It is not currently set as ENUM with options.  Using this field is similarly somewhat problematic since the results are manufacturer-specific.  Of course, no more so than ups_status_data (since data is derived from this one) but it seems that ups_status_data may be easier for a layman to read and update the example if required.

>   conditions: []

Reviewer 2: This is already the default.
```suggestion
```

  actions:
    - action: notify.notify
      data:

>         title: UPS Power Failure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        title: "UPS Power failure"
```

Author: Added enquote.  The capitalization should be consistent.  I have committed a separate change that makes both power and failure lowercase in case you wanted the title to only be capitalized at the very start.

>         message: The UPS lost power and is now on battery

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        message: "The UPS lost power and is now on battery"
```
